README.md, before:

# Kasa Umbrel Community App Store

Kasa (傘) means "umbrella" in Japanese, a nod to Umbrel's umbrella logo. This is an independent community app store and is not affiliated with the official Umbrel team.

## Available Apps

| # | Icon | App | Description | Port |
| :-: | :-: | :-- | :-- | :-: |
| 1 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-azuracast/icon.png" /> | [AzuraCast](apps/kasa-azuracast) | Self-hosted radio streaming and station management | 3004 |
| 2 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-calcom/icon.png" /> | [Cal.com](apps/kasa-calcom) | Open-source scheduling for teams and individuals | 3002 |
| 3 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-music-assistant/icon.png" /> | [Music Assistant](apps/kasa-music-assistant) | Unified music streaming for local and online sources | 8096 |
| 4 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-paperless-ai/icon.png" /> | [Paperless-AI](apps/kasa-paperless-ai) | AI tagging and RAG search for Paperless-ngx | 3001 |
| 5 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-paperless-gpt/icon.png" /> | [Paperless-GPT](apps/kasa-paperless-gpt) | LLM-powered OCR and tagging for Paperless-ngx | 3003 |

## App Dependencies

- **Paperless-AI** and **Paperless-GPT** require a running Paperless-ngx instance
- AI features require an LLM provider (e.g., Ollama or OpenAI). See individual app READMEs for details

## Installation

1. Open Umbrel UI → App Store → Community App Stores
2. Add this repository URL: `https://github.com/willrobin/umbrel-community-app-store`
3. Install apps as usual from the Kasa section

![Add Community App Store Demo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10330103/197889452-e5cd7e96-3233-4a09-b475-94b754adc7a3.mp4)

## Port Allocation

| Port Range | Usage |
|------------|-------|
| 3001 | Paperless-AI |
| 3002 | Cal.com |
| 3003 | Paperless-GPT |
| 3004 | AzuraCast Web UI |
| 8096 | Music Assistant |
| 8000-8010 | AzuraCast streaming |

No port conflicts with other known community app stores (verified as of January 2026).

## Data Storage

- All app data is stored under `${APP_DATA_DIR}` (set by Umbrel per app)
- Data persists across updates and reinstalls
- Backup your Umbrel data directory to preserve app configurations

## Development

### Creating a New App

```bash
./scripts/new-app.sh <app-id> "<App Name>"
```

### Workflow

1. Create app scaffold: `./scripts/new-app.sh kasa-myapp "My App"`
2. Edit files in `apps/kasa-myapp/`
3. Publish to root: `./scripts/publish.sh`
4. Validate configs: `./scripts/validate.sh`
5. Commit and push

### Scripts

| Script | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `scripts/new-app.sh` | Create new app scaffold |
| `scripts/publish.sh` | Sync apps to root level |
| `scripts/validate.sh` | Validate YAML configurations |

## Contributing

- App ideas and issues are welcome via GitHub Issues
- Never commit secrets or API keys to the repository
- Follow the [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)
- See [development documentation](DEVELOPMENT.md) for detailed workflow

## License

This community app store is provided as-is. Individual apps retain their original licenses.

Commit message:

docs: add CLAUDE.md with systematic Umbrel app checklist and update README
Add CLAUDE.md as persistent context for Claude Code sessions. This file
ensures every session starts with full awareness that we are building
Docker containers specifically for umbrelOS, not generic Docker deployments.

CLAUDE.md includes:
- Systematic phase-by-phase checklist for adding/updating apps
- Umbrel-specific Docker-Compose patterns and environment variables
- Port allocation table with next-available tracking
- Quality gates (icon, name, description, version, changelog, screenshots)
- Repository structure documentation (two-directory pattern)
- Commit message conventions
- Widget availability status for umbrelOS
- Session reminders to enforce consistency

README.md updates:
- Add Moltbot to the Available Apps table (was missing after merge)
- Add Moltbot to App Dependencies section
- Add Moltbot Gateway port 3007 to Port Allocation table
- Renumber apps alphabetically (6 apps total)

https://claude.ai/code/session_01Ak8RDRKDZefh7Ui1B1S8GU

README.md, after:

# Kasa Umbrel Community App Store

Kasa (傘) means "umbrella" in Japanese, a nod to Umbrel's umbrella logo. This is an independent community app store and is not affiliated with the official Umbrel team.

## Available Apps

| # | Icon | App | Description | Port |
| :-: | :-: | :-- | :-- | :-: |
| 1 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-azuracast/icon.png" /> | [AzuraCast](apps/kasa-azuracast) | Self-hosted radio streaming and station management | 3004 |
| 2 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-calcom/icon.png" /> | [Cal.com](apps/kasa-calcom) | Open-source scheduling for teams and individuals | 3002 |
| 3 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-moltbot/icon.png" /> | [Moltbot](apps/kasa-moltbot) | Personal AI assistant with multi-channel messaging | 3007 |
| 4 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-music-assistant/icon.png" /> | [Music Assistant](apps/kasa-music-assistant) | Unified music streaming for local and online sources | 8096 |
| 5 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-paperless-ai/icon.png" /> | [Paperless-AI](apps/kasa-paperless-ai) | AI tagging and RAG search for Paperless-ngx | 3001 |
| 6 | <img height="28" src="apps/kasa-paperless-gpt/icon.png" /> | [Paperless-GPT](apps/kasa-paperless-gpt) | LLM-powered OCR and tagging for Paperless-ngx | 3003 |

## App Dependencies

- **Paperless-AI** and **Paperless-GPT** require a running Paperless-ngx instance
- **Moltbot** requires an LLM provider API key (Anthropic Claude or OpenAI). See the [Moltbot README](apps/kasa-moltbot) for details
- AI features require an LLM provider (e.g., Ollama or OpenAI). See individual app READMEs for details

## Installation

1. Open Umbrel UI → App Store → Community App Stores
2. Add this repository URL: `https://github.com/willrobin/umbrel-community-app-store`
3. Install apps as usual from the Kasa section

![Add Community App Store Demo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10330103/197889452-e5cd7e96-3233-4a09-b475-94b754adc7a3.mp4)

## Port Allocation

| Port Range | Usage |
|------------|-------|
| 3001 | Paperless-AI |
| 3002 | Cal.com |
| 3003 | Paperless-GPT |
| 3004 | AzuraCast Web UI |
| 3007 | Moltbot Gateway |
| 8096 | Music Assistant |
| 8000–8010 | AzuraCast streaming |

No port conflicts with other known community app stores (verified as of January 2026).

## Data Storage

- All app data is stored under `${APP_DATA_DIR}` (set by Umbrel per app)
- Data persists across updates and reinstalls
- Backup your Umbrel data directory to preserve app configurations

## Development

### Creating a New App

```bash
./scripts/new-app.sh <app-id> "<App Name>"
```

### Workflow

1. Create app scaffold: `./scripts/new-app.sh kasa-myapp "My App"`
2. Edit files in `apps/kasa-myapp/`
3. Publish to root: `./scripts/publish.sh`
4. Validate configs: `./scripts/validate.sh`
5. Commit and push

### Scripts

| Script | Purpose |
|--------|---------|
| `scripts/new-app.sh` | Create new app scaffold |
| `scripts/publish.sh` | Sync apps to root level |
| `scripts/validate.sh` | Validate YAML configurations |

## Contributing

- App ideas and issues are welcome via GitHub Issues
- Never commit secrets or API keys to the repository
- Follow the [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)
- See [development documentation](DEVELOPMENT.md) for detailed workflow

## License

This community app store is provided as-is. Individual apps retain their original licenses.
